you
this lecture is about generating
probabilistic models for text classroom
in this lecture we're going to continue
discussing text classroom and we're
going to introduce generating population
models as a way to do text the classroom
so this is the overall plan for covering
text classroom in the previous lecture
we have talked about what is texture
clustering and white X the transferring
is interesting in this lecture we're
going to talk about how to do text
classroom now in general as you see on
this slide there are two kinds of
approaches one is generating properties
for models which is a topic of this
lecture and later we'll also discuss
similarity based approaches so to talk
about the generative models for text
transferring it will be useful to
revisit the top of the mining problem
using topic models because the two
problems are very similar so this is a
slide that you have seen earlier in the
intellectual on topic model here we show
that we have an input of text correction
C and number of topics K and vocabulary
V and we hope to generate as output to
two things one is a set of topics
denoted by theta eyes each is the word
distribution and the other is pi ideas
and these are the probabilities that
each document covers each topic so this
is a public coverage and it's also
visualized here on this slide you can
see that this is what we can get by
using a topic model now a main
difference between this and the text
clustering problem is that here a
document is assumed to possible it cover
multiple topics and indeed in general
document will be covering more than one
topic with nonzero probabilities in text
clustering however we only allow a
document to
cover one topic if we assume one topic
is a cluster so that means if we change
the problem definition just slightly by
assuming that each document that can
maybe generate by using precise one
topic then we'll have a definition of
the clustering problem as you're here so
here the output is changed so that we no
longer have the detailed coverage
distributions Tyagi's but instead we're
going to have cluster assignment
decisions and see I NCI is decision for
the document I and C sub I is going to
take a value from once okay to indicate
one of the K clusters and basically
tells us talking that I is in which
cluster as illustrated here we no longer
have multiple talking topics covered in
each document it's precisely one top
although which topic is still uncertain
there is also a connection with the
problem of mining one topic two that
would discuss terrarium and so here
again it's a slide that you have seen
before and here we hope to estimate a
topical model word distribution based on
precisely one document and that's when
we're assuming that this document covers
precise we won't talk it but we can also
consider some variations of the problem
for example we can consider there are n
documents eg covers a different topic so
that's n documents and topics of course
in this case these documents are
independent and these topics are some
independent but we can further allow
these Dawkins will share topics and by
we also assume that we are going to
assume there are fewer topics than the
number of documents so this document
must share some top topics and if we
have n documents will share K topics
then we'll again have precisely the
document clustering proper
so because of these connections
naturally we can think about how to use
the publicity generating model to solve
the problem of the text classroom so the
question now is what generative model
can be used to do do clustering as in
all cases of designing a generative
model we hope the generative model would
adopt the output that will help to
generate or the structure that will help
to model so in this case it's a
classroom structure the topics and each
document that covers one poppy I hope to
embed such such preferences in a
generative model but if you think about
the main difference between this problem
and the topic model that we talked about
earlier and then you will see a main
requirement is how can we force every
document to be generally the from
precisely one topic instead of clay
puppets as in the topic model so let's
revisit the topic model again in more
detail so this is a detail review of two
component mixture model and when we have
K components a looks Silla so here we
see that when we generate a document we
generate each word independently and
when we generate each word we first like
a choice between these distributions we
decide to use one of them with
probability so P of theta one is the
probability of choosing the distribution
on the top now we first to make this
decision regarding which distribution we
should be used to generate the world and
then we're going to use this
distribution the sample world now note
that in such a generative model the
decision on which distribution to use
for each word is independent so that
means for example the here could have
been generated from the second
distribution theta two whereas text
is more likely generator from the first
one on the top that means the words in
the document could have been generated
in general from multiple distributions
now this is not what we want as we say
for text classroom for document class
room where we hope this document will be
generated from precisely one topic so
now that means we need to modify the
model but how well let's first think
about why this model cannot be used for
classroom and I say just to say the
reason is because it has allowed
multiple topics to contribute the world
to the document and that causes
confusion because we're not going to
know which cluster this document is from
and it's more importantly than violating
our assumption about the partitioning of
documents in the clusters if we really
have one topic to correspond to one
cluster of documents then we would have
a document that to begin with the from
precisely one topic that means all the
words in the document must have been
generated from precisely one
distribution and this is not true for
such a topic model that we are seeing
here and that's why this cannot be used
for clustering because it did not ensure
that only one distributing has been used
to generate all the words in one
document so if you realize this problem
then we can naturally design alternative
mixture model for doing clustering so
this is what you are seeing here and we
again would have to make a decision
regarding which it is to begin to use to
generate document because the document
could potentially be generated from any
of the k or distributions that we have
but this time once we have made a
decision to choose one of the topics
we're going to stay with this
distribution to generate the other words
in the document and that means once we
have made a choice of the distribution
for ingenuity in the first world
we'll stay with this decision in
generating all the other words in the
document so in other words we only make
the choice once for all basically we
make the decision once for this document
and then stay with this to generate all
the world similarly if I had choosing
the second that you've incidence up to
here you can see we will stay with this
one and then generated the entire
document the T now if you compare this
picture with the previous one you will
see the decision of using a particular
distribution is made of just once for
this document in the case of document as
well but in the case of topic model we
have to make as many decisions as the
number of words in the document because
for each word we can make uh potentially
different decision and that's the key
difference between the two models but
this is obviously also a mixture model
so we can just group them together as
one box and to show that this is a model
that will give us the probability of the
document now inside this model there's
also the switch of choosing a different
distribution and we don't observe that
so that's a mixture model and of course
a main problem in tag document
clustering is to infer which is
distribution has been used to generate a
document and that would allow us to
recover the cluster identity of a
document
so it will be useful to think about the
difference from the topic model as I
have also mentioned multiple times and
there are mainly two differences one is
the choice of using that particular
distribution is made just once for
talking a classroom model whereas in the
topic model I made a multiple times for
different world the second is that world
distribution here is going to be used to
degenerate all the words for a document
but in the case of top modeling one
distribution doesn't have to again with
all the words in a document multiple
distribution could have been used to
generated the words in the document
let's also think about the special case
when one of the the one the probability
of choosing a particular distribution is
equal to one now that just means we have
no uncertainty now we'll just stick with
one particular distribution now in that
case clearly we will see this is no
longer mixture model because there is no
uncertainty here and we're going to just
use precise for one of the distributions
for generating a document or going back
to the case of estimating one voltage
regime based on one document so that's a
connection that we discussed earlier
now you can see it more clearly so as
more cases of using a generative model
to solve a problem we first look at data
and then think about how to design the
model but once we design model the next
step is to write down the likelihood
function and after that we're going to
look at the how to estimate the premise
right so in this case what's the
likelihood function well it's going to
be very similar to what we have seen
before in popping models I will be also
different now if you still recall what
the likelihood function looks like in
Pais
a-and you realize that in general the
probability of observing a data point
from mixture model is going to be a sum
over all the possibilities of generating
the data in this case so it's going to
be sum over these K topics because every
one can be used to generate the document
and then inside the Sun you can still
recall what the formula looks like and
it's going to be the product of two
probabilities and one is the probability
of choosing the distribution the other
is the probability of observing a
particularly their opponent from that
distribution so if you map this formula
it's kind of formula to our problem here
you will see the probability of
observing a document T is basically a
sum in this case over two different
distributions because we have a very
simplified situation of just two
clusters and so in this case you can see
it's a sum of two cases in each case
it's indeed the probability of choosing
the choosing the world the distribution
either
theta 1 or theta 2 right and then it's
this the probabilities multiplied by the
probability of observing this document
from this particular distribution and
and if you further expand this
probability of observing the whole
document we see that its product of
observing each word X sub I and here we
made the assumption that each word is
generated independently so the
probability of the whole document is
just a product of the probability of
each word in the document so this form
it should be very similar to the topic
model but it's also useful to think
about the difference and for that
purpose I'm also copying the probability
of popping model with two components
here so here you can see the formula
looks very similar or in many ways they
are similar but the
it's also some difference and in
particular the difference is on the top
you see for the mixture model of a
document clustering we first to take a
product and then take a song and that's
corresponding to our assumption of first
to make a choice of choosing one this
region and then stay with the distri you
know generate all the words and that's
why we had the product inside of the Sun
the Sun corresponds to the choice now in
topic model we see that the Sun is
actually inside of the product and
that's because we generated each word
independently and that's why we have the
product outside but when we generate
each each word we have to make a
decision regarding which distribution
you use so we have some there for each
word but in general ideas are all mixed
models and we can estimate these models
by using the e/m algorithm as we'll
discuss more later